yo what up we are broadcasting live in a
suspicious salmon-colored shirt from the
edge of my kitchen sink or if just been
washing dishes on livestream keeping it
all the way real and this video is gonna
continue to keep it real talking about
an issue that's current within the
digital vegan demi-monde but i'm talking
about in a reasonably deep way so this
video will still be meaningful if I come
back and watch it myself maybe 5 or 10
years now when I've forgotten
hopefully forgotten the controversy at
the moment that Spurs me to make this
video look good it's gonna kick this off
with two anecdotes one from my personal
life and one from my my professional
life I guess back when I was a scholar
of Buddhism I walked into a room in a
reasonably ostentatious Buddhist temple
in Sri Lanka and there was a younger
monk attending on an older monk who was
more or less on his deathbed so this was
an August respected and revered senior
Buddhist monk expected to die
I don't know within days or weeks but
obviously his physical health was
deteriorating and they assumed his
mental health was deteriorating as well
and there was the monk I walked in the
door with who was more or less like my
interpreter I wouldn't have been able to
walk into that room and that Buddhist
temple without him saying next to me he
vouched for me as a as a Buddhist
scholar if you like anyway so the monk
was hoping I would talk to this elder
monk about scholarship and translation
and research and handwritten Pali
manuscripts the type of thing I was
doing and you know I was also doing
history in politics and slavery and
revolution and all kinds other stuff but
that's outside the scope of this video
and this monk is overwhelmed with
emotion and he's talking about a
specific situation from World War two in
very passionate tones and everybody else
in the room except me thinks that he's
insane
it was a really memorable moment in a
really strange scenario he was talking
about an impossible to summarize complex
political situation that involves Sri
Lanka and Japan and of course the
broader conflict between the British
Empire and the Nazis to simplify
slightly and you know he was kind of
half weeping as he was talking about it
and evidently he was there and he was
involved and I didn't get the whole
story and I sat down with his but it's
not gonna held his hand and I looked in
his eyes and because of the cultural
context of Buddhism everyone else in the
room just assumes I'm doing the
compassionate thing and like pretending
to understand what this guy was talking
about but I knew the history I knew that
what he was saying was coherent and
meaningful and was about a specific
historical situation and everybody else
in the room thought that this guy was
lying there on his deathbed and was
losing his marbles that he was yeah I
remember one of the monks used exactly
that phrase to me he said oh it's such a
shame you know this formally respected
and revered buddhist monk he's he's
losing his marbles everyone else thought
this guy was ranting incoherently just
because they didn't know the context
nulls more the political content of what
this guy said but that was rushed out of
the room went away they all thought it
was very you know pious of me to sit
down and hold this guy's hand he'll do
his eyes but I really knew what he was
talking about I knew that he wasn't
crazy and I ever quite learned what his
role was in that history he was old
enough he was alive during World War two
and you know he was involved in that
situation which is why he was so
overwhelmed with emotion about it he was
wanting to pass on you know before he
died some details I think not just about
the events themselves but also vote the
religious ceremonies where they got
together kind of the Japanese and Sri
Lankan sides at the end of the war I
think to reflect on what happened and
why
so anyway
the perception of this man as insane
haunted me everybody in the room is
being reasonable and well-intentioned
and even ostentatiously compassionate
but in fact they're judging this guy is
insane quite wrongly and dismissing what
he had to say and what he had to say I
had some real importance now just within
the last few days I've been taking care
of my daughter who is 4 years old around
the clock I only have custody for 15
days but for these 15 days I'm spending
as much time as possible and a couple of
times my daughter has said things to me
where in context I I I just didn't know
what she was talking about and then a
few hours later or a few days later she
puts on some TV show she watches
regularly and suddenly it clicks that
what she's saying wasn't crazy she was
discussing a situation in some TV show
she watch watches you know a TV show for
kids but when she was telling it to me
in the kind of slightly garbled way that
four-year-olds talk I had no idea what
she was talking about and it seemed like
nonsense or it seemed crazy to give one
example you would assume you guys
probably - I remember she was talking to
me about imagination and she asked me
these are is almost a direct quote when
I use my imagination do I use a trolley
what and you know like trying to be nice
to my daughter and I said well you know
where I live in Canada we don't have a
trolley and where I live in China we
don't have a trolley evening and she
said no no this wasn't what you meant so
later I sat with her and we watched this
TV show of Mister Rogers neighborhood
it's a classic TV show for kids and I
realized oh okay this is what she met I
had watched that show when I was a child
decades ago and I've forgotten right
when you use your imagination
do you use throw okay it's disturbing to
me to see people on the internet with
absolutely no humor and no detachment
and no compassion judging one another as
sane and insane and even someone as
despicable as durianrider I have stood
up in the past this is the origin of my
conflicts with vegan cheetah was the
back when vegan cheetah was making
reckless accusations against durianrider
I stood up and said no that's wrong
that's inappropriate I'm not just
standing up against defamation because I
don't want to be defamed myself I don't
want anyone to face this kind of
defamation and slander not even during
Ryder he doesn't deserve that and I'm
not comfortable with people saying that
during Ryder was a narcissist so that
during Ryder is insane in the in the
reckless way that they do and you know
there's a famous line from Chris Rock
it's famous to me Chris Rock is a
comedian Chris Rock stood up on stage
one time and said you know people go
around saying life is short life is
short no it's not life is long
especially when you make the wrong
choices and you know a lot of people
it's really easy to perceive them as
insane when the truth is they're just
somebody who's made some bad choices and
maybe they're still making bad choices
now maybe they're making bad choices
again and again but for an outsider
looking in it's really easy to perceive
bad choices as insanity and there are
two very different things
I see people judging durianrider as a
narcissist as having NPD narcissistic
personality disorder while ignoring all
the evidence about what kind of sanity
and what kind of insanity he displays we
have videotape evidence showing us and
while ignoring you know the very real
record of his own experience of the
psychiatric establishment
now during Ryder lies about many things
but to give you an example
writer said that when he was still very
young doctors told his parents that they
believed he was a compulsive liar or a
pathological liar has ever call I heard
during writers say that in his interview
with Rich roll which roll has a podcast
unaware deputy miner during writer has
talked about the psychiatric and
psychological examinations he underwent
as part of a court case which I believe
had to deal with liability and
disability following a car accident or
an accident with a truck he's described
that at length so if anyone making these
videos if you sincerely believe during
Ryder had MPD it nurses for now and
there's the nurses divorce now a
disorder as a specific condition why was
he not diagnosed with it and any of
these times and in the other hand why do
we have so many plausible suggestions
for what's wrong with him from real
allegedly real reportedly according to
him real psychiatric evaluations he's
undergone which did diagnosed him with
having very serious psychological
problems very serious psychiatric
disorders but not this one not MPD right
so there's a lot of wishful thinking
going on here and it's disturbing to me
to see again I don't want anyone to be
slandered I didn't defend myself so that
people will turn around and slander
during write it this way I really you
know it's really not cool to me um and
I've seen videotape of durianrider doing
things if you really understand NPD if
you really understand our system
personality disorder if you really known
people diagnosed the condition who
really have that condition then for
example when you see durianrider
sitting in front of a live audience
which i've seen and taking questions and
taking criticisms unexpected and first
prizm in the manner that he does it's
impossible for a new belief watching
that videotape
there is real counter evidence that he
does not have NPD let me tell you
something guys you can meet someone who
is a bulimic and never know they're a
bulimic you know see no signs of it in
their behavior because the nature
bulimia is a disorder that can be
private it can be personal it can be one
person alone in the bathroom after they
de miel etc there are many many
psychological and psychiatric conditions
that are not evident in face to face
shallow interactions people of this kind
NPD is not one of them MPD is a
behavioral disorder it's a personality
disorder of face to face behavior
between people that's exactly what
people with MPD have the most problem
with right MPD is a very very serious
disorder and if you don't know what it
is and how it operates
but you meet someone and interact with
them face to face who has a disorder you
would at the very least get the sense
that there's something very seriously
wrong with them and meanwhile people
with the condition often not always but
often can have successful careers as
computer programmers or lawyers doing
all kinds of work provided that the core
of the work they can do alone alone in a
cubicle alone at their cottage they're
people with MPD very often alternate
between seeking the company of others
the adulation of others the approval of
others the ego validation of others and
running away to be isolated and that is
partly because they feel and with great
sorrow people with MPD really do feel
the indifference and even boredom and
disapproval of those around them when
people fail to give them the kind of
validation and gratification that you
see I don't see progress for the vegan
movement in switching from the kind of
slander the durianrider used to direct
against others to the kind of slander I
now see directed against the writer
that's not progress that's not why I had
my fundraiser and had my legal case
progress is if we progress beyond this
kind of slander entirely
it's impossible for me to verify the
honesty of anything during writer says
because he's lied about many many things
but so far as I know what he has said
about his own psychiatric diagnosis for
this what I take it seriously he's
talked about his own experiences with
psychiatrists and psychotherapists and
so on and I've always said it's strange
to me that his followers don't just take
that more seriously and whether you
react with compassion or contempt is up
to you
but there's no point constructing new
fables or new slander or new anyone no
against these people it's not good for
me it's not good for you it's not good
for veganism etc um I have brothers my
father had a lot of kids I have brothers
and half-brothers would have you who
just made terrible choices with their
lives a lot of those choices are
invisible in our culture in our society
I have several brothers who from my
perspective I would consider to be
alcoholics I think within Canada or
within England they're not considered
alcoholics because a very high level of
drinking is considered acceptable or
invisible you know people make bad
choices life is long
especially when you make the wrong
choices it's really really easy to
perceive someone else's choices from the
outside without understanding the
context or that understand the politics
with understanding the other options
they had it's really easy to perceive
that as insanity
I do think insanity is a problem in the
movement I've made myself very unpopular
by talking about how important it is
that we work with people in politics who
are really reliable who are really sane
that we're honest with ourselves we
don't dismiss the significance of
psychiatric problems when we're choosing
who are our allies who are our
colleagues in the movements etc but in
the same way that I once sat down in
that room with that Buddhist monk and
everyone else perceived this guy's
insane you've got a tree people with
enough detachment compassion insight
just patience just hearing their side of
the story you know it's it's skepticism
of another kind to say well am i yet at
the point where I can judge whether this
person is sane or insane am i yet at the
point where I can judge why did they
make the bad choices that they've made
sometimes people make bad choices for
good reasons sometimes they make bad
choices for reasons that make sense to
themselves and themselves alone and
sometimes they make bad choices for no
good reason at all but none of those
things makes you insane
insanity is something very different and
a specific diagnosis like narcissistic
personality disorder it's something very
different again